So I'm gonna show you a little, kind
of cheat way, to get on to Kubernetes.
And we're gonna use
a project called Kompose.
Kompose with a K.
So coming back over to our project here,
Kompose.
I want you to click here on Kompose,
which is kompose.io.
This is an official project from the
Kubernetes organization, which is part of
the Cloud Native Foundation, which I
believe is part of the Linux Foundation.
Okay, and
then I want you to come in here and
I think there is
an installation tab right there.
And it's another curl command that
you're gonna download and run.
And right there,
that's the one that you want.
You're gonna have to do
the same kinda song and dance,
make it execute a little plus X,
and then move that into your path.
And it looks like it will
work on Windows as well.
It looks like we have a binary
that you just install from GitHub.
But again,
I think you're stuck in PowerShell land.
Okay.
So now that I have Kompose.
It's just version.
There you go, I have 1.19, 1.19.
And the next thing that we need to do is
we need to go modify our docker-compose
file a little bit to work with this.
So that's what compose does for you,
is it takes the docker-compose file that
we wrote, and it turns that into
a Kubernetes configuration.
Which is pretty cool,
because docker-compose is pretty easy by
comparison to understand to
Kubernetes configurations.
So as long as we're good building
Docker-compose files we can be using
Kubernetes.
And what you can do and what I do
personally, when I'm messing around with
Kubernetes I'll start with
the Docker-compose file, I'll use compose
to convert everything to Kubernetes
output and then I'll go from there.
Okay, so we're gonna come
into our docker-compose.yml.
We're gonna change the image or
the build to an image because
it won't do builds for us.
That's one thing that compose will
not do for you nor Kubernetes.
So once you change this to
btholt/node-app, so this is on Docker Bub,
it's literally the app that we've
been building this whole time.
I just built it and pushed it to
Docker Hub so that we can do this, but
you have to go through a registry.
So whether that's running your own
registry locally or that's pushing it to
a Git Hub package repository or pushing it
to Docker Hub or Azure Container Registry.
There's a bunch of different
places you can push these.
For now we're just gonna use Docker Hub
because that's the easiest one.
Okay, ports 3000.
And we are gonna get rid of this volumes
part because you do not use Kubernetes for
development purposes.
So that's all this stuff is not useful.
When I put ports back if you took that
out like I did, which is 3000:3000.
Links db, that's fine, environment,
that's fine, we gotta add one more though,
which is labels.
So there's certain things that
Kubernetes needs to know about our
particular service.
And one of them is that this
is a load balancing service,
which means that it needs to have like
some sort of load balancer in front of it.
So if you wanna have ten containers
running at the same time Kubernetes can do
that load balancing for us.
So Docker compose doesn't have this
concept of load balancing built into it.
So we have to kind of
indicate to compose like hey,
please put this into the Kubernetes
load balancing situation.
So you say compose.service.type, and
you just say this is a load balancer.
So labels are typically more used for
things like, this is a database container.
And then it makes it easy for like search
through your clusters defined things.
They're just labels in that sense.
Okay, and
last thing here on we have to give
the database explicit ports to be using.
So we're gonna say please
put this on 27017.
Okay, so now we've kind of
composified this Docker compose file.
All right.
So the one thing that I wanted to
point out to you is we did this
load balancer thing right here.
If you try and push this to something
like Amazon or to Azure, they know how to
deal with it, load balancers,
they have built in services for you.
Typically, they're not cheap.
So if you have like 15 different services,
and they're all load balancers,
that's gonna get really
expensive really quick.
What you're actually gonna wanna to do for
the most part is not have each one
of your services be load balanced.
You're gonna wanna have something
like NGINX in front of everything in
that load balances across everything.
So just be aware of that, I don't want
someone to call me with like I had
a $10,000 bill and
I'm going to kill you, please don't.
I put a nice note in here
inside of the Kompose.
Where is it?
A great blog post from Google Cloud
explaining load balancer.
There's another thing called NodePort,
which is just like exposes
the same thing on everyone's port.
So like if I say expose on Port 3000,
it'll be exposed on every container inside
of my clusters,
Port 3000 will be that one container.
And you can also use LoadBalancer and
there's another thing called Ingress.
Ingress is not necessarily a thing, it's
just an idea, which is like NGINX, right?
Having NGINX manage all of your Ingress
traffic into your particular cluster.
Kind of a deep topic you don't really
need to know this is gonna work for
our development environment.
All right, so
I need you to do like kind of a hack here,
this is for
how Kompose is expected to work.
It needs someway to talk to your kubectl.
So you're gonna run this
kubectl proxy --port-8080.
And it's just gonna start
serving traffic imported.
You can actually take a look at it,
I think.
It's nothing exciting,
if I remember correctly.
Yeah, it's basically an API for anyone to
interact with your cube control, right?
It's kind of exposing that
to your local computer.
Okay, so
I don't wanna run that in the foreground.
You can actually just say,
if I put & here at the end,
it's gonna run it in the background.
So now if I look at my computer,
which I obviously have a lot of things, so
if I do ps aux grep kubectl, you can see
here, it's running here in the background.
That's what that end, does it the end
is it forces stuff into the background.
You can do that with like screen and
T Max and
a bunch of other stuff to just lazy and
don't use this.
All right, so now that's running, and
this won't work by the way
if you don't do that.
So now that we have kompose,
we're gonna say kompose up.
And you can see here it create a db
service, it created a web service,
it created a deployment for
both of these and
everything's running in
the default name space.
So in theory, we should be able to
come here and say local host 3000.
And it's working now within Kubernetes.
So pretty cool, you are now running
a Kubernetes cluster on your computer.
Which I find to be very cool,
like this is very difficult and
it's spent a bunch of time getting
it down to be this simple.
So I need you to be dammit,
like I need you do the impressed by this.
So let's take a look at what's actually
happening underneath the hood.
So if I say kubectl, get all,
You can see here, I have this deployment,
this deployment going out, and I have
replicasets going, I have some ClusterIPs.
But the part that I'm actually most
interested in is the services, right?
I have a service for db,
I have a service for web,
this one is a LoadBalancer,
this one is just some static IPs.
And in this case, your ClusterIPs, keep
in mind these are internal ClusterIPs.
So if I tried like ping this,
it wouldn't work,
because this only works inside of
Kubernetes, inside of its virtual network.
But this one does have an external-IP,
is it's exposing a localhost on port 3000.